## Spring boot multimodule reload time project

Project to measure reload time of large Spring boot application. 
Application is partly generated by Maven plugin under `/generator` submodule (`test-spring-boot-multimodule-reload-time-generator`).
See list of properties ahead to configure generator.

How to build Flow for `test-spring-boot-multimodule-reload-time` locally:
```
/flow
$ mvn clean install -DskipTests -Pvalidation,benchmark
```

How to run tests locally:

```
mvn verify -pl :test-spring-boot-multimodule-reload-time-ui -Pbenchmark -Dvaadin.test.codegen.maven.plugin.routes=1000
```

### Properties for code generator

`vaadin.test.codegen.maven.plugin.routes`: number of generated routes. Default is 500.

`vaadin.test.codegen.maven.plugin.services.per.route`: number of generated Spring components per route. Default is 1.

`vaadin.test.codegen.maven.plugin.cssimports.per.route`: number of generated
@CssImport + .css combos per route. CSS files are generated
in `frontend/generated-css` folder. CSS file has a rule that is used by the
route.
Default is 0.

`vaadin.test.codegen.maven.plugin.jsmodules.per.route`: number of generated
@JsModule + .js combos per route. JS files are generated
in `frontend/generated-js` folder. Javascript in the file defines a simple
web-component with
Lit. Web component is added to the DOM of the route. Default is 0.

`vaadin.test.codegen.maven.plugin.include.addons`: When 'true', generates '
addons' route that
uses various Vaadin addons in its constructor. Only use together
with `benchmark-directory-addons` Maven profile.

### Other properties for the integration test

`route.hierarchy.enabled`: When 'true', adds a route with hierarchical
structure.
Route is mapped like '
catalog/product/0' (or with alias 'catalog/prod/0'). 'false' by default.